Zork I adaptation: data sources and rules

Source: https://github.com/historicalsource/zork1
Room definitions: 1dungeon.zil (saved here as zork1_source.zil).
Boat transitions: RIVER-LAUNCH table in 1actions.zil.
The source and original static room descriptions are MIT licensed.
See ZORK_LICENSE.txt for the required copyright and license notice.

build_zork_map.py extracts 110 named rooms and the item definitions into
zork_map.json. Rooms whose original descriptions depend on action routines have
new prose written for this adaptation. Static LDESC descriptions come from the source.

This is a playable adaptation, not a complete Zork interpreter. The puzzle,
combat, hint and endgame rules are described in PUZZLES.md. The world rules:
- Puzzle gates are closed until solved; permanently forbidden exits stay forbidden.
  Maze(puzzles=False) is a navigation mode in which every gate is open and the goal
  is the Treasure Room.
- Procedural movement uses fixed destinations from the original routines.
- "launch" follows boat-launch routes with a boat supplied automatically.
- Items use original placements and descriptions. Hidden objects stay hidden until
  the puzzle that reveals them is solved.
- Take, drop, examine/read, inventory, open/close, put and the room interactions
  listed by look.allowed_actions are supported.
- Item SIZE (default 5) and CAPACITY (default 0) values come from the source.
- Maximum carrying load is 100 units, including all nested contents.
- As in ITAKE, above seven directly carried items, additional pickups can fumble.
  The roll uses FUMBLE-PROB 8 and the current directly carried item count;
  containers reduce loose item count but do not reduce total weight.
- Containers and their containing ancestors must have room for a deposited item.
- Explicit commands, including LOOK, INVENTORY, EXAMINE, and failed physical
  attempts, consume one turn. Browser polling, SCORE and HINT are free. RESET
  restarts the world and clears turns, scores, inventory, flags and container changes.
- First visits award room VALUE; first pickups award object VALUE once.
  Treasures currently in the trophy case add TVALUE; removing them removes that
  storage score. Nested treasures are included in trophy-case scoring here.
- The original score ceiling and rank thresholds are retained: 350 points, all of
  which are obtainable (the mine's 13-point bonus is adapted to lowering the
  lantern in the basket, since light is not simulated).
- Troll combat uses the original melee tables with random rolls. The player can be
  wounded, knocked out or killed; death ends the game until a save is restored or
  the world is reset.
- The temple is a one-way pocket: the dome rope only goes down, and the way out is the altar stairs.
  The coffin is too big for them (as in the original), so it leaves by praying at the altar.
- Not implemented: darkness, boat inflation, the original parser, and item theft
  by the thief.
- The starting room is West of House. Reaching 350 points reveals the ancient map;
  going in through the stone door at the Stone Barrow ends the adventure with the original closing text.
- Directed, vertical, diagonal, self-loop, and one-way passages are preserved.

The browser draws the rooms as a schematic. Up and down passages move a room to a
separate band (Above ground, Ground level, Underground, ...); inside a band rooms
are placed from their compass exits and spread out so they do not overlap. Positions
are only a drawing aid: the direction-labelled arrows and exit lists define the real
connections. The full map is for the human viewer. MCP look returns only the current room.

Run from the maze folder (the browser opens automatically; set MAZE_NO_BROWSER=1 to stop that):
  uv run python web_app.py
Regenerate the room data from the saved source:
  uv run python build_zork_map.py
Checks (no model requests):
  uv run python -m unittest discover -s tests -t .
Perfect scripted run (350 points, adventure complete), headless:
  uv run python autoplay.py
Rebuild that script after changing the map or rules (the tests fail if it is stale):
  uv run python make_walkthrough.py

Rule references:
  gglobals.zil: LOAD-MAX / LOAD-ALLOWED
  gverbs.zil: ITAKE, WEIGHT, V-PUT, SCORE-OBJ
  zork1.zil: default SIZE / CAPACITY / VALUE / TVALUE
  1actions.zil: V-SCORE ranks, trophy-case scoring, MELEE and TROLL-FCN
  gmain.zil and gclock.zil: turn counting
